spending time in nature
can have real effects on our body's
responses to stress
i'd really like this research to help us
bring the therapeutic power of nature to
people when they really need it the most
my name's alex and i'm researching the
links between
environment and health at the university
of exeter
at the moment my work is focusing on how
digital experiences of nature
might help to boost people's well-being
there's pretty good evidence to suggest
that spending time in nature
can have real effects on our body's
responses to stress
japanese researchers have looked at this
lovely idea of shinrinyoku which
literally translates
to forest bathing
when people spend time in japanese
forest their blood pressure falls
their heart rate calms levels of the
stress hormone cortisol tend to drop
beyond this sort of direct response of
our bodies
our minds can also recover more quickly
from
stress and fatigue when we're in nature
so what's going on here well one of the
ways that we try and explain
how natural environments can help us
recover from stressful fatigue is
by using attention restoration theory
and this invokes this wonderful idea of
soft fascination so something like
watching waves breaking on a beach
or sunlight flickering through the
leaves in a forest
these soft processes allows the bits of
our brains which deal with
concentrating focusing to relax and
recover
so for a long time researchers tended to
focus their efforts on understanding the
therapeutic potential of green spaces
so that might be parks gardens the
countryside
and in recent years we've started to add
more detail to that understanding
and one of the areas that's emerged is
this importance
of blue spaces so that's any environment
that features
water could be lakes rivers canals and
of course
the coast and what's really interesting
is it looks like the margins
might be most important where those two
environments the green and the blue
meet
we know that spending time in the
natural world is a rich multi-sensory
experience
and in recent years we started to pay
more attention
to how the sounds of nature might be
therapeutic
listening to songbirds so things like
blackbird robin
wren here in the uk could be really
important but
also sounds of flowing water are really
highly rated
waves breaking on a beach babbling broke
and of course that brings us back
to blue space
so how do we make the most of this
research how do we put some of this
learning
into practice well i guess the first tip
is to get out there
if you can if you live close to the
countryside to the coast or you have a
park at
the end of the road you can go blue if
you can
so if possible trying to bring some of
these water-based elements
into your outside experience watching
the sun
shimmer on a lake surface or listening
to the sound of a gently flowing river
this could be the perfect ingredients
to help you relax and unwind if you
can't get outside and visit nature
you can try and bring some of these
elements inside there are also lots of
videos and soundscapes available
online which can help you to immerse
yourself in nature at home
i'd really like this research to help us
bring the therapeutic power of nature to
people when they really need it the most
so when they might be stuck in hospital
or working
a long shift for example my hope is that
by
improving understanding of how human
health
and the health of the environment are
inextricably linked
that we might be able to start to
protect environments in a way which
allows
them to be valued and to thrive but also
for the health of populations to benefit
from that too
[Music]
[Applause]
you